.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_trash.8
.\"
.TH rozo_trash 8 "MARCH 2017" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_trash \- RozoFS Trash Utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rozo_trash 
<enable|disable> [pathname]

.B rozo_trash 
status [pathname]

.B rozo_trash 
ls ["pathname"]

.B rozo_trash 
restore <src> <dest>

.B rozo_trash 
purge

.B rozo_trash 
rm <"pathname">

.B rozo_trash 
help

.B
.SH DESCRIPTION
RozoFS provides the ability to associate a trash with each directory thanks rozo_trash utility.
This should happen after the directory creation. The trash can be either added or removed at any time.
The trash applies to regular file and directory only. Upon the deletion of either a file or directory,
rather than definitively removing the object, it is moved to the trash of its parent directory.


When a file is moved to the trash, RozoFS appends the date and hour at which the deletion takes place.
For a given file, RozoFS keeps only one copy in the trash. The periodicity is 
.B one hour.
RozoFS keeps in
the trash the first file that has been deleted in the period. 

The format of a file that resides in the trash is the following:
.B @YYYY-MM-DD-HH@@<filename>

The period does not apply for directory, each time a directory is deleted, RozoFS add an extra index
in the directory name found under the trash:
.B @YYYY-MM-DD-HH@<index>@<dirname>

Once a file or directory has been deleted, it still remains under the quota of the user. Purging or deletion of
files/directory move to trash is always under the control of the user. There no automatic deletion triggerred
by RozoFS.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "help"
.RS
Print help.
.RE
.IP "enable|disable"
.RS
Enable/disable trash on directory pathname (default is "
.B .
").
.RE
.IP "ls"
.RS
List the content of the local directory trash. A " 
.I pathname 
" can be provided optionally as a filter.

.RE
.IP "restore"
.RS
Restore either a file or directory from the local trash. The command MUST be issued under the directory that owns the trash. 
.I src 
is the name of the object as displayed by
.B rozo_trash ls
and
.I dest
is the name of the restored object. If 
.I dest
already exists, the file/directory restore is aborted. When it is a directory restore, the utility restores also the files under that directory that have been trashed during the same date/hour.


.RE
.IP "rm"
.RS
Remove file(s)/directory from the local trash. The command MUST be issued under the directory that owns the trash. A
.I pathname
can be optionally provided as a filter, the 
.I pathname
must be given with quotes to avoid unwanted expansion. User has to confirm the effective deletion for each element.
.RE
.RE
.IP "purge"
.RS
Unconditional purge within local trash.The command MUST be issued under the directory that owns the trash. User is prompted for providing either a
filename or a wildcard.

.SH EXAMPLES

.IP "-Searching for all the files that have been moved in the trash of dir3:"

.B root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3# rozo_trash ls

total 7

.B 1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file1
.EX
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 9 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file10
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file2
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file3
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file4
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file5
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file6
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file7
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file8
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 8 mars   7 15:09 @2017-03-07-15@@dir11file9
.B 1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file1
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file2
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file3
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file4
.EE


.IP "- Searching for the list of the files that have been trashed at a given date:"

root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3# 
.B rozo_trash ls
"2017-03-08*"

.EX
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file1
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file2
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file3
1 -r--r--r-- 1 root root 5 mars   8 10:38 @2017-03-08-10@@dir11file4
.EE

.IP "- Restore a file from the trash:"

root@debian:/mnt1_1_g0/dir3# 
.B rozo_trash restore 
@2017-03-08-10@@dir11file1 dir11file1


.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH "REPORTING BUGS" 
Report bugs to <bugs@fizians.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2016 Rozo Systems SAS. <http://www.rozosystem.com>

Rozofs is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 2.

Rozofs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.SH AUTHOR
Rozo Systems <http://www.rozosystem.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rozofs (7)

