.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii rozo_rebalance.conf.5
.\"
.TH rozo_rebalance.conf 5 "APRIL 2015" RozoFS "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
rozo_rebalance.conf \- RozoFS volume reblancer configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "rozo_rebalance.conf"
is managed thanks to 
.B libconfig
<http://www.hyperrealm.com/libconfig/> and thus complies to the
.B libconfig
grammar.

Boolean values must be set to either
.B
True
or
.B
False.

String values must enclosed into double quotes.

One of such file should be created per volume, and referenced in exportd.conf, 
although several volumes could use the same configuration file.

.SS free_avg_tolerance
This parameter defines the threshold in percentage around the average 
storage occupancy to which the balancing applies. Typically, the balancing 
stops when all the storages (sid) are included in the window defined by that 
threshold. 
See the -t parameter of the CLI.

.SS free_low_threshold
This parameter defines the free space threshold in percentage before 
triggering a storage balancing. If the free available space on sid is higher 
than that threshold, the balancing process stops. 
See the -a parameter of the CLI.

.SS frequency
This option defines the scanning frequency in seconds of the storage balancing 
proce.SS 
See the --frequency parameter of the CLI.
.SS older
Exclude files that are more recent than the specified delay. 
The delay is defined in minutes.
See the --olderm parameter of the CLI.
.SS newer
Exclude files that are older than the specified delay. 
The delay is defined in minutes.
See the --newerm parameter of the CLI.
.SS movecnt
That option defines the file count threshold before triggering
an effective file move 
See the --movecnt parameter of the CLI.
.SS movesz
That option defines the file count threshold before triggering
an effective file move 
See the --movesz parameter of the CLI.
.SS throughput
That option defines the maximun bandwidth in MB/s allocated to
the file mover.
See the --throughput parameter of the CLI.
.SS mode
That option indicates the access mode used by the storage balancer for moving the file:
- rel: use relative mode (parent/child)
- abs: use full pathname mode
- fid: use i-node mode 
.SS verbose
That option indicates the access mode used by the storage balancer for moving the file:
- rel: use relative mode (parent/child)
- abs: use full pathname mode
See --verbose parameter of the CLI.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
.ta +3i
free_avg_tolerance                                 = 5; 	
free_low_threshold                                 = 70; 	
frequency                                          = 60;
throughput                                         = 2;
.SH FILES
.I /etc/rozofs/rozo_rebalance.conf (/usr/local/etc/rozofs/rozo_rebalance.conf)
.RS
.\".SH ENVIRONMENT
.\".SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\".SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Fizians <http://www.fizians.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exportd.conf (5), rozofs (7)
